Her Friday Night Lights might have been turned off and not even an invisible jet could get the doomed Wonder Woman pilot off the ground, but Adrianne Palicki is still keeping busy, according to the 
latest from Deadline.

The red-and-blue outfit might have been shoved to the back of somebody.s closet but Palicki will no doubt be slipping into another skintight outfit as she joins up with G.I. Joe: Cobra Strikes as 
Lady Jaye. I.m still bummed that Scarlett and the Baroness aren.t making a return appearance but Palicki as Jaye is a definite step in the right direction.

Palicki will be joining Joe alums Channing Tatum (Duke), Ray Park (Snake Eyes), Byung Hun-Lee (Storm Shadow), and newbies Dwayne Johnson, RZA, DJ Cotrona, and Elodie Yung.

I was less than thrilled with the first film and don.t have high expectations for the sequel, but one character has yet to be cast and that person might have the potential to slightly redeem this 
attempt at scoring a big summertime hit. Joe Colton, the original G.I. Joe, still doesn.t have a face to go with the name. Bruce Willis, along with a few other actors, is reportedly being considered 
for the part and I think Paramount should make it happen. The more good actors around to take the focus off waste-of-space Tatum, the better the movie will be.

Though we won't see her on air in the canned "Wonder Woman" TV series, "Friday Night Lights" star Adrianne Palicki will still see some big action next summer. Deadline reports the stunning Palicki is 
the latest to join the cast of the Hasbro sequel G.I. Joe 2. The actress will be playing Lady Jaye, a character from the cartoon series who was a Joe covert operations specialist with a talent for 
impersonation, right down to the subject's voice and mannerisms. The cast is filling out quickly as Paramount is still looking to fill the 2012 summer spot left vacant by the Star Trek sequel, which 
is likely moving to winter instead.

Palicki joins a cast that includes just a handful of returning franchise members like Channing Tatum, Ray Park and Byung Hun-Lee, and new faces like Dwayne Johnson, RZA and D.J. Cotrona. More casting 
is still coming, and apparently the search is on for a big name to play the original G.I. Joe, General Joseph B. Colton. Apparently Bruce Willis has been one of the names tossed around (perfect 
casting if you ask me), but there's a few other unknown contenders in the running as well. A name like Willis might get me a little more interested, but that's assuming the script from Zombieland 
writers Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick is a vast improvement over the first film. We'll definitely keep you updated as pre-production continues on this.



She won.t be playing Wonder Woman, but Friday Night Lights  star Adrianne Palicki has scored a role in a different butt-kicking project: EW has confirmed she.ll play Lady Jaye (opposite Channing 
Tatum) in the G.I. Joe sequel, G.I. Joe: Cobra Strikes.

Palicki also stars in the upcoming remake of .80s action film Red Dawn.



Adrianne Palicki will play the female lead in Jon Chu.s G.I. Joe: Cobra Strikes.  According to Deadline, Palicki will play Lady Jaye (pictured above in what I seriously doubt is an approved military 
uniform).  The cast for the film continues to fill out as Paramount positions the sequel to be one of their summer 2012 tentpoles.  Palicki joins returning cast members Channing Tatum (who plays 
Duke), Ray Park (Snake Eyes), and Byung-hun Lee (Storm Shadow) along with new recruits Dwayne Johnson (Roadblock), RZA (Blind Master), D.J. Cotrona (Flint), and Elodie Yung (Jinx).  One of the major 
roles yet to be cast is original G.I. Joe, Joe Colton.  Deadline reports that Bruce Willis is the top choice for the role and he would certainly add some star power to the flick.

Hit the jump for a brief bio on Lady Jaye.  G.I. Joe: Cobra Strikes opens August 10, 2012.

Here.s a brief bio for Lady Jaye [via Wikipedia]:

    Lady Jaye is the G.I. Joe Team.s covert operations specialist. Her real name is Alison R. Hart-Burnett, and her rank is that of Staff Sergeant E-6. Lady Jaye was born on Martha.s Vineyard, 
Massachusetts. She is a Bryn Mawr graduate, and also did graduate work in Trinity College in Dublin, before graduating from intelligence school at Fort Holabird. She is Airborne and Ranger qualified, 
and an expert with the M-16, M-1911A1 auto pistol, and reflex crossbow. She is also an accomplished actress and fluent in several languages. She has a knack for impersonation, right down to the 
subject.s voice and mannerisms.

"Friday Nights Lights" star Adrianne Palicki is enlisting for duty in Paramount's upcoming sequel "G.I. Joe: Cobra Strikes," according to Deadline.com.

She joins returning stars Channing Tatum (as Duke), Ray Park (Snake Eyes), Byung Hun-Lee Storm Shadow and newcomers Dwayne Johnson (Road Block) and RZA.

Palicki will take on the role of Lady Jaye.

Paramount is still casting several roles, including the original G.I. Joe, Joe Colton. Bruce Wills is rumored to be one of the studio's top choices.

Jon M. Chu ("Justin Bieber: Never Say Never") is directing the film from Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick's script.

Palicki was set to be the star of David E, Kelley's TV update of "Wonder Woman," but th pilot didn't get picked up.

She was recently seen in  "Legion," and will soon appear in the "Red Dawn" remake with "Thor's" Chris Hemsworth.





"GI Joe" is looking better than "Wonder Woman" for Adrianne Palicki.

The "Friday Night Lights" actress will play Lady Jaye, the female lead in Paramount Pictures' "GI Joe: Cobra Strikes," TheWrap has confirmed.

    * (Photo: Reuters / Phil McCarten)<br>Cast member Adrianne Palicki participates in the panel for "Lone Star" during the Fox summer Television Critics Association press tour in Beverly Hills, 
California August 2, 2010.

Enlarge Close
(Photo: Reuters / Phil McCarten)
Cast member Adrianne Palicki participates in the panel for "Lone Star" during the Fox summer Television Critics Association press tour in Beverly Hills, California August 2, 2010.

Related Articles
Adrianne Palicki is "G.I. Joe's" Lady Jaye
Small Web firms caught in "Amazon tax" fight
Roskilde Festival to open today; inspirational performances tomorrow

Related Topics

    * Storm

Palicki had been cast as Wonder Woman, but NBC did not pick up the show.

Channing Tatum and Dwayne Johnson also star in the film, which is being directed by Jon Chu. Ray Park and Byung-hun Lee are expected back from the first "G.I. Joe" as Snake Eyes and Storm Shadow.

Paramount did reasonably well with the first "G.I. Joe." 2009's "G.I. Joe: The Rise of the Cobra" grossed $302 million at the worldwide box office. Its budget was estimated at $175 million.

The sequel is set for an August 10, 2012 release.

Adrienne Palicki made a big splash this year with her taking on the role as Wonder Woman for television, but the problem with that is that the networks chose not to pick up the show. What.s a girl to 
do? Well, she does what women can do best and moved on.

Source: Deadline

    Friday Nights Lights series star Adrianne Palicki will play the female lead in the Paramount sequel to G.I. Joe: Cobra Strikes. She.ll play Lady Jaye and joins a cast that includes Channing 
Tatum, as well as Dwayne Johnson, who signed on to play the role of Roadblock in the Jon M. Chu-directed film.

That.s a helluva rebound! I really thought they were cutting back on Joe.s, and it seems that 1 less Joe means room for a Jane Jaye. I like this. I.m not sure what.s cooking when adding a RZA and a 
Rock into the mix but it seems like that it.s starting to smell pretty good. Yes, I.m salivating. Thanks.







While she won't be playing Wonder Woman anymore, Adrianne Palicki will still be able to kick some ass in "G.I. 
Joe 2: Cobra Strikes". The Tyra Collette of "Friday Night Lights" has been reported being cast as Lady Jaye, the 
new female lead in the second installment of the action adventure film franchise.

Jaye, whose real name is Alison R. Hart-Burnett, is Airborne and Ranger qualified, and an expert with the M-16, 
M-1911A1 auto pistol and reflex crossbow. She is also an accomplished actress and can speak several different 
languages. Her other talent is impersonation.

In addition to Palicki, Bruce Willis is likely to join the cast ensemble which has already had Channing Tatum, 
Ray Park and Lee Byung-hun among others. According to Deadline, the John McClane of "Die Hard" film series is "a 
top choice" to portray Joe Colton, the original G.I. Joe, but Paramount also listed other actors as the possible 
depicters.

The "G.I. Joe: Rise of Cobra" sequel has previously cast Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson as Roadblock, who is described 
as a "big guy with a big gun". RZA also lands role in the movie which is set to be directed by Jon M. Chu, and is 
due August 10, 2012 in the U.S.

Adrianne Palicki's pilot "Wonder Woman" was recently not picked up by NBC, but she still can be seen in upcoming 
movie "Red Dawn". As for Bruce Willis, he has wrapped production for "Catch .44" and is set to star in such big 
screen projects as "Looper" and "Moonrise Kingdom". 




EXCLUSIVE: Friday Nights Lights series star Adrianne Palicki will play the female lead in the Paramount sequel to 
G.I. Joe: Cobra Strikes. She'll play Lady Jaye and joins a cast that includes Channing Tatum, as well as Dwayne 
Johnson, who signed  on to play the role of Roadblock in the Jon M. Chu-directed film.  Ray Park is expected to 
reprise his Snake Eyes character, Byung Hun-lee is expected to bring back Storm Shadow, and RZA just joined the 
film. The studio's casting quickly; they need the film for next summer because the Star Trek sequel won't be 
ready and this rebooted film and World War Z are prime candidates to fill summer slots. The big question is who 
Paramount sets in the role of the original G.I. Joe, Joe Colton. I've heard Bruce Willis as a top choice, but 
last time I checked the studio was eyeing several actors, insiders said. Script's by Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick 
and Lorenzo di Bonaventura is producing the Hasbro property.

As for Palicki, she's free because the Wonder Woman pilot didn't get picked up. She'll next be seen starring in 
Red Dawn and her screen credits include Legion, Women in Trouble and Lone Star. She's repped by UTA, Anonymous 
Content and David Fox.


Adrianne Palicki will still get her campy action-hero moment, even if it won't come courtesy of NBC's notoriously 
flushed pilot for Wonder Woman. Deadline reports that the Friday Night Lights actress has joined the cast of G.I. 
Joe: Cobra Strikes, where she'll star opposite Channing Tatum and Dwayne Johnson as the covert operations 
specialist code-named "Lady Jaye." (Maybe they shouldn't let people pick out their own code names.)


 "GI Joe" is looking better than "Wonder Woman" for Adrianne Palicki.

The "Friday Night Lights Actress" will play Lady Jaye, the female lead in "GI Joe: Cobra Strikes," TheWrap has 
confirmed.

Palicki had been cast as Wonder Woman, but NBC did not pick up the show.

Channing Tatum and Dwayne Johnson also star in the Jon Chu movie. Ray Park and Byung-hun Lee are expected back 
from the first "G.I. Joe" as Snake Eyes and Storm Shadow. Paul Wernick and Rhett Reese wrote the screenplay.

Paramount did reasonably well with the first "G.I. Joe." 2009's "G.I. Joe: The Rise of the Cobra" grossed $302 
million at the worldwide box office. Its budget was estimated at $175 million.

Lorenzo di Bonaventura, Mark Vahradian and Stephen Sommers are producing.

The movie is set for an Aug. 10, 2012 release.



Adrianne Palicki is the latest name to board Paramount Pictures' upcoming Untitled G.I. Joe Sequel, says a story 
at Deadline. She will play a key part of Joe team, Lady Jaye.

The film, to be directed by John Chu (Step Up 3D, Never Say Never), will continue the toy-inspired world depicted 
in 2009's G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra with a primarily new cast (except for the returning Channing Tatum as Duke, 
Ray Park as Snake Eyes and, likely, Byung Hun-lee as Stormshadow). Newcomers include Dwayne Johnson as Roadblock, 
Elodie Yung as Jinx, DJ Cotrona as Flint and RZA as The Blind Master.

Paliciki is best known for her role on "Friday Night Lights" and for her casting in the recent "Wonder Woman" 
pilot that was, ultimately, not picked up. Her character is an integral part of the Joes and a master of 
espionage.

Deadline's story meanwhile suggests that one key part remaining to be cast is that of Joe Colton, the original 
G.I. Joe. A number of actors are said to be in the running and Bruce Willis is listed among them. Colton and 
Jaye's action figure cardback bios are viewable below, courtesy of YoJoe.com and the collection of Corey Stinson.

G.I. Joe 2 is headed into production very soon with an eye towards a summer 2012 release.


GI JOE 2 (which, for the record, is NOT subtitled COBRA STRIKES), continues to line up an all new cast for the 
sequel bringing aboard "Friday Night Lights" star (and aspiring Wonder Woman) Adrianne Palicki to star as the 
female lead, Lady Jaye. Palicki joins the returning Channing Tatum as well as new additions Dwayne Johnson and 
RZA.

Where exactly the sequel takes this new gang of JOEs remains to be seen but we do know they'll be battling a new 
villain (Joseph Gordon-Levitt will not be returning to play Cobra Commander though Destro could make another 
appearance) and the plot will involve the original GI Joe, Joe Colton. Paramount was at one time zeroing in on 
Bruce Willis for that part but is now expanding to a number of other A-listers to fill that supporting but 
crucial part.

As for Lady Jaye, she's the covert operations specialist for the JOE squad. She's also a distinguished undercover 
operative but who knows whether they'll make use of that in the movie.

Jon Chu, who rocketed to quasi-fame in Hollywood for his work on NEVER SAY NEVER, the Justin Bieber concert 
movie, is directing the film from a script by Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick (ZOMBIELAND).


Adrianne Palicki has become the latest to join the cast of Paramount's upcoming sequel G.I. Joe 2: Cobra Strikes 
for director Jon M. Chu.

The actress will portray Lady Jaye, an intelligence officer in the squad. Earlier this week, we reported RZA and 
D.J. Cotrona joined the cast as Blind Master and Flint.

There is also speculation that Bruce Willis is being considered to play Joe Colton, the original G.I. Joe. 
Nothing is official yet, as Paramount is weighing other options, but Bruce Willis is a front runner for the role.

Jon M. Chu is directing G.I. Joe 2: Cobra Strikes from a script by Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick. Production is 
said to start fairly soon, with the studio eyeing to release the sequel next summer.

Adrianne Palicki landed the lead role in NBC's Wonder Woman pilot, although the network declined to pick it up to 
series.

G.I. Joe 2: Cobra Strikes comes to theaters August 10th, 2012 and stars Dwayne Johnson, Channing Tatum, Elodie 
Yung, RZA, D.J. Cotrona, Adrianne Palicki. The film is directed by Jon M. Chu. 



